.TH "bws_snapshot_render" "3" "2015-09-03" "Bowsprit" "Bowsprit\ documentation"
.SH NAME
.PP
bws_snapshot_render \[en] Rendering snapshots
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[B]#include <stdio.h>\f[]
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[B]#include <bowsprit.h>\f[]
.PP
void
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[B]bws_snapshot_render_to_buffer\f[](struct bws_snapshot
*\f[I]snapshot\f[],
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ struct
cork_buffer *\f[I]dest\f[]);
.PP
void
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[B]bws_snapshot_render_delta_to_buffer\f[](struct bws_snapshot
*\f[I]curr\f[],
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ struct
cork_snapshot *\f[I]prev\f[],
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ struct
cork_buffer *\f[I]dest\f[],
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ unsigned
int \f[I]interval_sec\f[]);
.PP
void
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[B]bws_snapshot_render_to_stream\f[](struct bws_snapshot
*\f[I]snapshot\f[],
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ FILE
*\f[I]dest\f[]);
.PP
void
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[B]bws_snapshot_render_delta_to_stream\f[](struct bws_snapshot
*\f[I]curr\f[],
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ struct
cork_snapshot *\f[I]prev\f[],
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ FILE
*\f[I]dest\f[],
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ unsigned
int \f[I]interval_sec\f[]);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \f[B]bws_snapshot_render\f[] family of functions pretty\-prints each
of the values in a snapshot.
Each value is printed on a separate line.
You don't have any control over the format that's used for each value;
if you want to do that, you can iterate through the contents of the
snapshot yourself.
.PP
The \f[B]delta\f[] variants will include the rate of change for any
derive statistics in the snapshot.
You must provide the current and previous snapshots, along with the
interval (in seconds) that occurred between the two.
You can pass in \f[C]NULL\f[] for \f[I]prev\f[] to render the
\[lq]first\[rq] snapshot.
.PP
The \f[B]buffer\f[] variants print the values into a
\f[B]cork_buffer\f[](3) instance.
\f[B]stream\f[] variants print the values to the given C stream.
